# Outbound Call Middleware Chain

This Flex Plugin allows developers to set custom pre-filter and middlewares for outbound calls started using the `StartOutboundCall` action. The idea behind this plugin is to provide a middleware engine that receives functions to change and/or filter outbound calls.

The plugin comes out of the box with a set of filters and also support custom filters that can be implemented by yourself.

## OOTB Middlewares

- **AutoQueueSelectionMiddleware**: Select a queue based on worker's task queues and availability against a block-list.
- **DefaultFallbackQueueMiddleware**: Select a default queue in case any other queue wasn't specified.
- **QueueDebuggerMiddleware**: Print on the console the action payload in a given moment.

## Requirements

- Flex 1.31+
- Node 14+
- NPM 6.14+
- [Twilio CLI 3.4+](https://www.twilio.com/docs/twilio-cli/quickstart#install-twilio-cli)
- [Flex Plugin for Twilio CLI](https://www.twilio.com/docs/twilio-cli/plugins#available-plugins)
- [Serverless Plugin for Twilio CLI](https://www.twilio.com/docs/twilio-cli/plugins#available-plugins)

## Setup

### Cloning repository

First things first, you need to clone this repository using the following command:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/devsdmf/flex-outbound-call-middleware-chain
$ cd flex-outbound-call-middleware-chain
```

### Installing dependencies

Now, we need to install the dependencies for both the plugin and the serverless functions:

```
$ cd /path/to/the project
$ npm install
$ cd functions/
$ npm install
```

### Setting up functions environment

Inside the functions folder, we have a `.env.sample` file, create a copy of this file and set the values according to the following list:

- FLEX_TASKROUTER_WORKSPACE_SID: This is the SID of your Flex TaskRouter workspace, that you can find [here](https://console.twilio.com/us1/develop/taskrouter/workspaces?frameUrl=%2Fconsole%2Ftaskrouter%2Fworkspaces%3Fx-target-region%3Dus1).

### Running functions locally

In order to run the functions in the local environment, you can start a development server using:

```
$ npm start
```

### Setting up plugin environment

On the root folder of the project, we have the `.env.sample` file, make a copy of this file and set the values according to the following list:

- FLEX_APP_TWILIO_SERVERLESS_DOMAIN: The domain where your functions are running, in case you are running it locally, it will be `http://localhost:3000` or the domain of your deployed serverless.

### Running the plugin locally

To run the plugin locally to test the middlewares and any custom components, you can start a development server using:

```
$ twilio flex:plugins:start
```

## Deploying the plugin

Prior to start the development, make sure that you already setup a profile on your Twilio CLI and installed the necessary plugins described on the _requirements_ section.

### Functions

To deploy the functions run the following command in the `/functions` folder:

```
$ twilio serverless:deploy --production
```

The output of this command contains the function's domain, save it in a safe place because we will use it in the next step, it has the following format: `outbound-call-middleware-XXXX.twil.io`.

### Plugin

First, you need to edit your `.env` file to set your functions domain in the variable. Then, you need to run the following command at the root of the repository:

```
$ twilio flex:plugins:deploy --major --changelog="Flex Outbound Call Middleware Chain"
```

The output of this command, gives you a new command like in the example below:

```
Using profile lucas-cc (ACXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX)

✔ Validating deployment of plugin flex-outbound-call-middleware
✔ Compiling a production build of flex-outbound-call-middleware
✔ Uploading flex-outbound-call-middleware
✔ Registering plugin flex-outbound-call-middleware with Plugins API
✔ Registering version v1.0.0 with Plugins API

🚀 Plugin (private) flex-outbound-call-middleware@1.0.0 was successfully deployed using Plugins API

Next Steps:
Run $ twilio flex:plugins:release --plugin flex-outbound-call-middleware@1.0.0 --name "Autogenerated Release 1655268041224" --description "The description of this Flex Plugin Configuration." to enable this plugin on your Flex application
```

Now, run the release command and it is ready to be tested!

## Usage

### Creating a new middleware

Creating a new middleware is pretty simple and just requires one file, that needs to be created on the `/middlewares` folder. The following example shows the API for a middleware as well how to deny a call:

```
/middlewares/SampleMiddleware.js

const SampleMiddleware = (next) => async (payload) => {
  console.log('SampleMiddleware called with payload => ', payload);

  if (payload === false) 
    return await next(false);

  // your logic goes here
  // you can change the payload and send it to the next middleware in the chain

  return await next(payload);

  // you can also pass false to deny the call at the end of the chain
  return await next(false);
};

export default SampleMiddleware;
```

## Registering the middleware

The middlewares are registered on the `/middlewares/index.js` file, and you just need to import it and add it to the middlewares array:

```
/middlewares/index.js

// default imports...
import SampleMiddleware from './SampleMiddleware';

// register the middlewares in the execution order on this following array
export const middlewares = [
  ...
  SampleMiddleware,
  ...
];

// rest of the code
```

**NOTE**: The middlewares are processed in the order of declaration, so, be careful with the order on the array.

## Disclaimer

This software is to be considered "sample code", a Type B Deliverable, and is delivered "as-is" to the user. Twilio bears no responsibility to support the use or implementation of this software.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE), that means that it is free to use, copy and modified for your own intents.

